# GrossDomesticProductAnalysis

GDP is composed of goods and services produced for sale in the market and also includes some nonmarket production, such as defense or education services provided by the government, this of often use to determine the wealth of a nation. The task here is to analysis the GDP of some countries available in the dataset, then presents observation and insight with data visualizations.

The dataset was gotten from the public domain in an Excel downloadable format which contains data between 2002 and 2020 for 228 countries in the world. However, the analysis is focus on year 2019 only. Microsoft excel functions were used for data manipulation, charts for virtual creation and performed some statistical functions. Also, applied data normalization method on life expectancy and GDP variable to ensure the values are in the same data range that facilitated the effective virtualization and computation of correlation between the two variables. The correlation is positive with a value of 0.66 between GDP and life expectancy, this means that increase in GDP also increases life expectancy at birth. But, a negative relationship exist between rank and GDP. This also means that increase in rank of a country, reduces the GDP - per capita.

In conclusion, the volume of the data was insufficient for the analysis, this may significantly impact the integrity of the outcome of this analysis on determining the wealth of the nation's available in the dataset. For more comprehensive understanding of public health, more organic data with additional indicators or variables needs to be collected from the appropriate agencies or authorities in each country, or leverage on available public related dataset with the right authorization.
